Regular expressions
  Practial: Libraries in all languages for this.
  Q: Describe the set of strings that some RE matches: a+b*
Context-Free Grammar -> EBNF form
  Practical: Exact def of a language; used by compiler designers.
  Q: Make a parse tree for some grammar and token sequence.
  Q: What is the difference between a terminal and non-terminal in a grammar?

Structure of a Compiler
  Scanner (UTF-8): Bytes -> UTF-8 -> Characters -> RegEx -> Tokens
    Tokens: Are the terminals of the languages.
    Tokens: often defined using regular expressions.
    Q: What is the purpose of UTF-8?
    
  Parser: Seqence of Tokens -> Parser -> Parse tree
    The grammar of the language defines the parse tree.
    Recursive Descent vs Shift-Reduce Parser
    Problems with Left & Right recursion in the grammar.
  Once you have the parse tree, then the back-end is application
  specific.
    Q: What's the difference between Recursive Descent and Shift Reduce Parsers?

Q: Why do many compilers build to some intermediate language instead of
a specific machine language?

Pass by value, Pass by reference, and Everything is an Object
structure of common languages today.
Q: Describe the output of a small C/C++ snippet.
Q: In an EEO language like Javascript, what values are passed?
Why are const values not really constant in these languages?

Lambdas and await / async
Q: Why are lambdas useful?
Q: Convert a snippet of JS lambdas <=> await / async.

Garbage Collection (why and why not)
HTML DOM/CSS selectors and properties
Q: What is the DOM.  How do selectors work?  Interpret a small snippet of 
HTML/CSS
SQL injection
Q: What's the problem.  How do you fix it?

Libraries, Versions, and Security
Q: Why use libraries, what are good policies for versioning of libraries,
what security problems show up in modern software development from the
use (and not use) of libraries.

Reflection
Q: Why not have reflection?  Why is it useful?
Blockchain
Q: What is the main problem that blockchains address?
Q: Why are transactions on blockchains programs instead of simple double-book
entries?
